<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="backfill-date-range" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Backfill a date range</title>
  <shortdesc>Run a job over historical data for a specific time range.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>backfill</keyword>
        <keyword>historical data</keyword>
        <keyword>date range</keyword>
        <keyword>incremental override</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>You have a job ID (for example, <codeph>job_123</codeph>).</li>
        <li>Your job is configured for incremental sync and supports a cursor field.</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p><xref href="../concepts/core-concepts.dita">Incremental jobs</xref> normally sync only the latest changes since the last run. A backfill overrides
        this behavior and re-syncs all data within a specified time range. Common scenarios include
        populating a new target table, recovering from data corruption, or onboarding historical data
        after adding a new mapping.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a backfill run specifying the time range.</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>curl -s \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DATA_SYNC_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Idempotency-Key: 9d2c1ef1-1a2f-4c69-bc3f-6f0cb6b8fd3a" \
  -d '{
    "reason": "backfill",
    "mode": "backfill",
    "backfill": {
      "start": "2026-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "end":   "2026-01-31T23:59:59Z"
    }
  }' \
  "https://api.datasync.example.com/v1/jobs/job_123/runs"</codeblock></info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Monitor the run until it completes.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note type="tip">Backfills can take significantly longer than incremental runs. Use a higher polling
            interval (for example, 30–60 seconds) to reduce unnecessary API calls.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>The job has synchronized historical data for the specified range.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>

  <related-links>
    <link href="run-job-check-status.dita">
      <linktext>Run a job and check status</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../reference/endpoints-runs.dita">
      <linktext>Runs API reference</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="replay-failed-run.dita">
      <linktext>Replay a failed run</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</task>
