<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="create-sync-job" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Create a sync job</title>
  <shortdesc>Create a job that syncs a dataset from a source connector to a target connector.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>create job</keyword>
        <keyword>sync job</keyword>
        <keyword>mapping</keyword>
        <keyword>incremental sync</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>You have created a source connector and a target connector.</li>
        <li>You have their IDs (for example, <codeph>conn_src_123</codeph> and <codeph>conn_tgt_456</codeph>).</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>A job ties a source connector to a target connector and defines which tables or datasets to sync.
        Once the job exists it does not move data on its own — you must <xref href="run-job-check-status.dita">create a run</xref> to trigger execution.
        Use this task after you have set up at least one source and one target connector.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create the job with a POST request.</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>curl -s \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DATA_SYNC_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Idempotency-Key: 0f3f77d8-cc4a-4d48-9c1f-81d5f6f2b88a" \
  -d '{
    "name": "orders_to_warehouse",
    "source_connector_id": "conn_src_123",
    "target_connector_id": "conn_tgt_456",
    "sync_mode": "incremental",
    "incremental": {
      "cursor_field": "updated_at",
      "cursor_format": "iso8601"
    },
    "mappings": [
      {
        "source": { "schema": "public", "table": "orders" },
        "target": { "dataset": "analytics", "table": "orders" },
        "write_disposition": "merge",
        "primary_key": ["order_id"]
      }
    ],
    "schedule": {
      "type": "cron",
      "expression": "0 */2 * * *"
    }
  }' \
  "https://api.datasync.example.com/v1/jobs"</codeblock></info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Capture the <codeph>id</codeph> from the response.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>You will use the job ID when creating runs.</p>
          <note type="tip">Save the job ID in a variable for use in subsequent commands:
            <codeblock>JOB_ID=$(echo "$RESPONSE" | jq -r '.id')</codeblock></note>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>The job is created and ready to run.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>

  <related-links>
    <link href="../concepts/core-concepts.dita">
      <linktext>Core concepts</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../reference/endpoints-jobs.dita">
      <linktext>Jobs API reference</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../reference/schemas.dita">
      <linktext>Resource schemas</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="run-job-check-status.dita">
      <linktext>Run a job and check status</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</task>
