<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="replay-failed-run" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Replay a failed run</title>
  <shortdesc>Replay a run after fixing a transient issue such as credentials or network instability.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>replay</keyword>
        <keyword>failed run</keyword>
        <keyword>retry</keyword>
        <keyword>troubleshooting</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>You have a failed <codeph>run_id</codeph> (for example, <codeph>run_456</codeph>).</li>
        <li>You have remediated the root cause (for example, updated connector credentials).</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>A replay re-executes a previous run using the same job configuration and parameters. This is
        useful when a run failed due to a transient issue — for example, expired credentials, a brief
        network outage, or a temporary permissions error — and you have already resolved the root cause.
        Review the <xref href="../concepts/errors.dita">error details</xref> to identify the failure before replaying.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a replay request for the run.</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>curl -s \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DATA_SYNC_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Idempotency-Key: 1a8a1de2-9d1a-4f5a-9d59-2c0d5d9b7d1a" \
  -d '{ "reason": "replay_after_fix" }' \
  "https://api.datasync.example.com/v1/runs/run_456/replay"</codeblock></info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Check the response for the new <codeph>run_id</codeph>.</cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Monitor the new run to completion.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note type="important">The replay creates an entirely new run with its own <codeph>run_id</codeph>.
            The original failed run is not modified.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>The service has created a new run based on the original run configuration.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>

  <related-links>
    <link href="run-job-check-status.dita">
      <linktext>Run a job and check status</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../reference/endpoints-runs.dita">
      <linktext>Runs API reference</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../concepts/errors.dita">
      <linktext>Error handling</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</task>
