<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="run-job-check-status" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Run a job and check status</title>
  <shortdesc>Create a run for a job and poll the run status until completion.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>run</keyword>
        <keyword>trigger</keyword>
        <keyword>poll status</keyword>
        <keyword>monitoring</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <ul>
        <li>You have a job ID (for example, <codeph>job_123</codeph>).</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Runs are asynchronous — creating a run queues the job for execution and returns immediately.
        You then poll the run resource until it reaches a terminal state (<codeph>succeeded</codeph>,
        <codeph>failed</codeph>, or <codeph>canceled</codeph>). Use this task whenever you need to
        trigger a sync manually or verify that a scheduled run completed successfully.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a run for the job.</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>curl -s \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DATA_SYNC_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Idempotency-Key: 2b3c7c1e-7b39-4a2f-8b0e-0b3ad9f5a1c2" \
  -d '{ "reason": "manual_trigger" }' \
  "https://api.datasync.example.com/v1/jobs/job_123/runs"</codeblock></info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the <codeph>run_id</codeph> from the response.</cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>Poll the run resource to check status.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock>curl -s \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DATA_SYNC_API_KEY" \
  "https://api.datasync.example.com/v1/runs/run_456"</codeblock>
          <p>Continue polling until <codeph>status</codeph> is <codeph>succeeded</codeph> or <codeph>failed</codeph>.</p>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>If the run fails, review the error details.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Inspect <codeph>error.code</codeph>, <codeph>error.message</codeph>, and <codeph>error.details</codeph>, then decide whether to <xref href="replay-failed-run.dita">replay the run</xref>.</p>
          <note type="remember">Always fix the root cause before replaying a failed run. Replaying without
            remediation will likely produce the same failure.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>You can trigger runs and observe their progress.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>

  <related-links>
    <link href="create-sync-job.dita">
      <linktext>Create a sync job</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../reference/endpoints-runs.dita">
      <linktext>Runs API reference</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../concepts/errors.dita">
      <linktext>Error handling</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="backfill-date-range.dita">
      <linktext>Backfill a date range</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="replay-failed-run.dita">
      <linktext>Replay a failed run</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</task>
