<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="changelog" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Changelog</title>
  <shortdesc>Track changes to the documentation and API behavior.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>changelog</keyword>
        <keyword>release notes</keyword>
        <keyword>version history</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>2026-02-15 — v0.3</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Added <codeph>&lt;prolog&gt;</codeph> metadata (author, dates, keywords) to all 15 topics.</li>
        <li>Added inline <codeph>&lt;xref&gt;</codeph> cross-references throughout body text for contextual navigation.</li>
        <li>Wired orphaned <codeph>assets/examples/</codeph> JSON files into endpoint references via <codeph>&lt;coderef&gt;</codeph>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>2026-02-15 — v0.2</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Added <codeph>&lt;related-links&gt;</codeph> to all 14 key topics for end-of-topic navigation.</li>
        <li>Added response examples (with HTTP status codes) to every endpoint in the three reference files.</li>
        <li>Created <codeph>shared/reusable-content.dita</codeph> conref warehouse with base URL, idempotency, and error response fragments.</li>
        <li>Applied conref reuse across 5 topics (<codeph>&lt;codeblock&gt;</codeph>, <codeph>&lt;p&gt;</codeph>, and <codeph>&lt;ph&gt;</codeph> patterns).</li>
        <li>Added <codeph>&lt;note&gt;</codeph> elements (tip, important, remember, restriction, caution) across 7 files.</li>
        <li>Added <codeph>&lt;context&gt;</codeph> to all 5 task topics explaining when and why to perform each task.</li>
        <li>Standardized endpoint parameter documentation: consistent <codeph>&lt;simpletable&gt;</codeph> format for query parameters (3 columns) and request body fields (4 columns).</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>2026-02-15 — v0.1</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Created DITA starter kit (concepts, tasks, reference, ditamap).</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
