<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="connectors-api-reference" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Connectors API reference</title>
  <shortdesc>Endpoints for creating, retrieving, and managing connectors.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    <section>
      <title>Connectors endpoints</title>
      <p>Connectors store connection configuration for sources and targets.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>List connectors</title>
      <p><b>GET</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors</codeph></p>
      <simpletable>
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Query parameter</stentry>
          <stentry>Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow><stentry>limit</stentry><stentry>integer</stentry><stentry>Max items (default 50, max 200).</stentry></strow>
        <strow><stentry>cursor</stentry><stentry>string</stentry><stentry>Cursor for the next page.</stentry></strow>
        <strow><stentry>type</stentry><stentry>string</stentry><stentry>Filter by type (postgres, mysql, bigquery, snowflake, s3, rest).</stentry></strow>
      </simpletable>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Create a connector</title>
      <p><b>POST</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors</codeph></p>
      <p>Creates a connector. Secrets are write-only and never returned in full.</p>
      <p><b>Example</b></p>
      <codeblock>{
  "name": "warehouse_bigquery",
  "type": "bigquery",
  "config": {
    "project_id": "my-project",
    "dataset": "analytics",
    "location": "US"
  },
  "secrets": {
    "service_account_json": "..."
  }
}</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Get a connector</title>
      <p><b>GET</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors/{connector_id}</codeph></p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Update a connector</title>
      <p><b>PUT</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors/{connector_id}</codeph></p>
      <p>Replaces the connector configuration. Use <codeph>Idempotency-Key</codeph> for safe retries.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Delete a connector</title>
      <p><b>DELETE</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors/{connector_id}</codeph></p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Test a connector</title>
      <p><b>POST</b> <codeph>/v1/connectors/{connector_id}/test</codeph></p>
      <p>Validates credentials and connectivity, returning diagnostic results.</p>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
