<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="overview" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Data Sync Service API overview</title>
  <shortdesc>
    The Data Sync Service API helps you define and run resilient sync jobs to move data from sources to targets (for example,
    operational systems to a data warehouse) with observability, retries, and idempotency.
  </shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author>Ramiro Luz Vergolino Zahlouth</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2026-02-15"/>
    </critdates>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>overview</keyword>
        <keyword>data sync</keyword>
        <keyword>API</keyword>
        <keyword>ETL</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Who this documentation is for</title>
      <p>This documentation is intended for:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Platform engineers</b> integrating the service into internal tooling.</li>
        <li><b>Data engineers</b> creating and operating sync jobs.</li>
        <li><b>Site reliability engineers</b> monitoring job runs and incidents.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Base URL and versioning</title>
      <p>All endpoints are prefixed with:</p>
      <codeblock conref="../shared/reusable-content.dita#reusable-content/base-url"/>
      <p>Versioning uses a URI prefix (<codeph>/v1</codeph>). Breaking changes are introduced only in new major versions.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>API design highlights</title>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Idempotent writes:</b> create and update operations support <codeph>Idempotency-Key</codeph>. See <xref href="authentication.dita">Authentication</xref>.</li>
        <li><b>Async runs:</b> job execution is asynchronous; poll run status or subscribe to webhooks (optional).</li>
        <li><b>Operational visibility:</b> runs include structured error details and timing metrics.</li>
        <li><b>Rate limits:</b> consistent limits per API key; clients should implement backoff on HTTP 429. See <xref href="errors.dita">Error handling</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Example workflow</title>
      <ol>
        <li><xref href="../reference/endpoints-connectors.dita">Create a connector</xref> for a source system.</li>
        <li>Create a connector for a target (warehouse).</li>
        <li><xref href="../tasks/create-sync-job.dita">Create a sync job</xref> referencing both connectors.</li>
        <li><xref href="../tasks/run-job-check-status.dita">Run the job</xref> and monitor the run status.</li>
        <li><xref href="../tasks/backfill-date-range.dita">Backfill</xref> or <xref href="../tasks/replay-failed-run.dita">replay</xref> runs when needed.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </conbody>

  <related-links>
    <link href="core-concepts.dita">
      <linktext>Core concepts</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="authentication.dita">
      <linktext>Authentication</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="../tasks/quickstart-call-api.dita">
      <linktext>Quickstart: call the API</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</concept>
